The big thing, I want to pick your brain on.
So I'm so full disclosure because this might entertain you. People would,
I would say things on the trail like, Hey, I'm
quoting you. I, sometimes I attributed, sometimes I did.
And I knew you wouldn't care.
I would say we have some of the smartest engineers in the country turning super
computers into dopamine delivery devices for our kids.
And it's having a disastrous effect on our mental health teenage girls in
particular, according to Jonathan Hayden and Jean Twain used data. Um,
and then every parent in Iowa, New Hampshire who heard this were like, yeah,
because they see their kids getting addicted to their screens and you know,
it's not great for their development. And then they would turn to me and say,
what are we going to do about it? And that I would say,
you know what we're going to do? Here's where, I don't know if you said this.
I said, as your president, I'm going to start at a pension, the tent, uh,
department of the attention economy.
And I'm going to have my friend Tristan Harris wrote it just on his bed
bed,
trying to change the design decisions of these tech companies for years now,
most of them, you know, just gave like, Oh, like, you know,
Andrew knows someone specifically who has the right thinking on this.
But, uh, if we were to play that scenario out,
what do we need to do to try and, uh,
humanize our technology and our use of it.
First. I just want to say a few things to what you shared. Um, man. Yeah. Well,
I just want to say,
I appreciate it so much that you like with universal basic income and like with
other aspects of your platform, you,
I think have always prioritized to kind of public education in your work, um,
and trying to help people understand and elevate issues that are not being
talked about and using your presidential campaign to do that.
I think that was amazing.
You did that with UBI and you've also been doing that with the attention economy
and, um, you know, I think you helped make it even a bigger issue.
And I just really want to say, I really appreciated that, that you,
you led the way, uh, on, on elevating it as,
as I think to its rightful position as one of the top issues facing society,
because it's underneath and exacerbating all the other issues.
It makes it impossible to solve any problems if we can't even agree on reality.
Exactly, exactly. And that's what we say in the film.
So clearly is if we can't agree in reality, we can't solve any problem.
Whether it's climate change poverty or social justice and racism or whatever we
want to, we want to deal with. So truth be told,
this is not an easy thing to regulate. Um,
it has to do with core business models.
I do think we can look to ways that the climate movement
thinks about an increasing over time tax, um,
to carbon, you know, to, to carbon externalities setting a price on carbon.
You know, so essentially as we've talked about, um,
this is an extractive economy where instead of extracting oil out of the ground
and then producing, you know, climate change at a global level in the commons,
depleting the environmental commons and also eroding the,
the life support systems of the planet. That's the fossil fuel economy in this.
We have an extractive economy built on not just extracting human attention,
but as we talked about in an earlier interview, we did, um,
fracking for human attention because, uh,
we're worth more also when we're multitasking, um, really quickly on that,
we're worth more when you have a tablet, a phone and your television up,
and that triples the size of the attention economy,
because now you're paying attention to three things.
So dark, but one.
The thing that very much like that when you use the metaphor of fracking for
attention, you start to see that we're selling just like the financial crisis,
thinner and thinner slices of human attention as if it's worth the
same as valuable, concentrated attention. But it's kind of junk attention,
just like we're selling thinner and thinner credit default swap type junk
instruments, financial instruments,
and selling it as if it's this bigger thing and propping up this kind of
inflated, uh, advertising attention market. Um,
so I think one thing we can do is we can correct for that inflation. Um,
you know,
I think there's one study from a couple of years ago where Facebook was found to
inflate the amount of advertising reporting that it did for their
advertisers by 900%, meaning they exaggerated how much, um,
the viewership or clicks there was by 900%. So that's just like, you know,
a financial broker exaggerating the value of a financial instrument by bylaws.
So we can kind of clean up, um, comprehensively this systemically,
fragile, uh, fragility creating system so much like you want to, you,
can't just say, we're going to get completely off of oil in one year.
And carbon prices are going to be set to a million dollars a ton,
and we're going to move over. You set up a transition plan over 10 years.
So I think what we need is a transition plan from each company maximizing how
much attention that they kind of extract to winding down how much
commodification of human attention that we can do over time. Um,
one model of this actually comes from, uh,
the way that we regulate energy companies,
because it used to be that PG and E or con Edison or whatever your energy
company is. There are for-profit company, uh,
theoretically they want you to use as much energy as possible.
So leave the lights on, leave the faucets on maximize.
You're just wasting of energy and you're maximizing climate pollution, you know,
activity and behavior.
They can even put those nests in your home and then maximize how much you use to
like manipulate you into using the most.
That would be a kind of dystopian reality.
Our, our, our recommended home temperature is 95 degrees. Exactly,
exactly. And get you to change.
All the time and, you know, um, anyway,
so obviously that would be an extractive kind of business.
And it's fundamentally misaligned with the comments because it,
it accelerates climate change, et cetera.
So we've dealt with this problem before we actually have regulated utilities
that, um, set, um, seasonal targets for how much money you can make as a,
as a utility off of a certain amount of energy. So for example,
if there's a seasonal availability of so much energy,
it costs this much for this lower tier two.
And then if you're a consumer and you use, let's say beyond that amount,
because it's a hot summer,
they actually double charge you for that next phase of, of, um,
of energy that you're using.
Except those extra profits don't go into the coffers of PGNE or con Edison.
They go into a public fund, uh,
that actually invests in the renewable energy infrastructure that we need.
So that's a nice, I don't know if you've got the bits,
they're sort of a nice transition plan of.
Oh, I see all I caught that.
You probably know these better than I do, frankly.
But no, no, no, no, no. So let me,
let me just try and walk through this just for fun. So let's say, um,
you and I are getting together and we're part of the department of detached
economy and we're like, all right, Hey, Facebook, here's the deal. Um,
we, we find you, um,
excessively extractive in terms of the amount of attention you're getting from
folks. So step number one,
stop exaggerating the amount of time we actually spend on you.
That's that's number one, but number two, um,
for every bit of attention you get beyond a certain period,
let's call it like our, uh, four plus for a teenager.
Like there's actually like some negative social value associated with that. Um,
so we're going to have you pay a penalty,
um, and then use that penalty then to fund some alternatives,
let's call it like little leagues or whatever,
but something that, that would be like the anti, um,
Facebook, um, uh, type of countermeasure, uh,
is that more or less accurate?
Well, I also want to say this is a tiny part of a,
probably a more comprehensive way of dealing with these problems, but I think,
um, there's an, there's a part of it,
which is that we have to remove some of the perverse incentives. Um,
you're what you're saying now reminds me of something. I said,
when I went to the can con whatever you say, call it, uh,
pronounce it advertising festival, where, um, you know,
we were talking to the advertisers that fund all this activity and these mental
health harms and said, um, you know,
after there's a mental health crisis from kids, and there's a loneliness crisis,
someone's gonna ask the question who paid for all of this to happen.
And it's obviously these advertisers.
And one of the things we proposed was imagine you just simply cannot make money
from usage between, let's say midnight and six in the morning.
If you're a tech company that disincentivizes usage of sort of late night
lonely use that sort of the low willpower period of, of, of use. Now,
that's, that's definitely.
Again, I don't know what you're talking about. Tristan.
I have never done any low willpower to attack social media use between those
hours.
I think you, you were the superhuman willpower, a one among us.
Kidding. We've all done it, but it's,
but I love that idea so much where you cordon off a number of hours where you're
like, look, extracting attention in these hours is, is not, not a good thing.
It's like treating a park, you know, those trees,
some of the trees we extract and we turn into lumber, other trees, we say,
this is part of a national park and there for walking and exploring and
enjoying, right? And it's like, some of our attention can be maybe, you know,
part of, uh, a system that obviously wants to commoditize it.
But that's another thing.
Is there sort of a violation of turning alive humanness and alive human choice
into these dead slabs of human behavior through behavior modification engines,
right? So we can,
we turn like alive consciousness into this sort of dead end consciousness in
which your behavior is more or less predictable because we've taken what could
be a free choice and turn it into an unconscious habit,
which is a form of kind of like dead lumber is to a tree.
What dead human behavior is to alive human being.
There's many different aspects of this that I think we have to correct.
I think what we need here is overall something more comprehensive,
just like with the financial crisis. If you asked me Andrew and say,
what's the one law that we passed, that's going to fix all this.
I like your approach that this is sort of an ongoing issue and that we need a
cabinet level department of the attention economy to, uh,
to deal with these problems.
Oh, let's dig into the tool kit a little bit more,
cause I'm already learning a ton from you. Um,
so I love seeing it as something of a negative externality,
like attention beyond a certain point where you say,
look like I was thinking beyond our ex, um,
is probably not a great thing for you. I love your saying,
look between midnight and 6:00 AM probably terrible for
teenagers to be, uh, Facebooking it up or whatnot.
Like what, uh, just throw a few things out there,
like that also belong somewhere in the consideration set or tool kit.
Yeah. You know, we're going to be publishing, um, some more on this,
on our website. Soon. I have some of it up here right now,
but I think a more comprehensive approach is something like what we had for the
financial crisis,
where we had a comprehensively risk creating system and we needed a
comprehensive basil three reforms in Europe or the Dodd-Frank kind of reforms,
the United States. I know there's some problems with that,
but that's the magically what we would want to be going after.
So we need protection for kids, privacy, for people, transparency,
for platforms, you can imagine you get section two 30 protections for content,
but not for amplification or recommendation systems.
And in exchange for getting section two 30 protections for those who don't know,
it's what prevents is what enables platforms to not be liable for bad content on
their platforms. But in exchange for that,
there has to be transparency to the public and to many civil society groups,
to be able to say which things we want to measure about the use or, or, um,
prevalence of certain kinds of content so that we can actually do a better job
of regulating them.
Cause we don't even have transparency now about how bad is the teenage mental
health problem.
How many users beneath the age of 16 are using it between two and four in the
morning. If we had transparency,
we could actually make them report not to a board of directors,
but to a board of the people based on these metrics that matter to us in a
democratically governance society.
That is enormous.
So modifying section two 30 in those ways would be huge because in many
ways, uh, that is these companies licensed to,
uh, operate in print money really, you know,
and this was written in 96 before any of these companies even existed.
Like we couldn't.
Really anticipated YouTube and Facebook and sick talk, you know,
many years later.
Yeah.
So we need to examine this license essentially.
And what you're suggesting is a difference between, um,
posting content, um, and then, uh,
spreading advertising content or messages or videos that there's some kind of
commercial incentive attached to. Um, so that's a very,
that's a very interesting distinction. Um,
the other interesting thing you're attaching to it is to say, look,
we're going to give you this. And in some cases,
this franchise is worth billions, even trillions of dollars,
but in return we get data,
they get real data about what the actual public harms are. Um,
because if you compare this to a negative externality where you look at,
you know, for example, with pollution, you look around and say, okay, there's,
uh, uh, you know, there are negative effects through climate change.
And this one,
we actually need the data that the social media companies have in order to
measure, um, a lot of the harms.
Right? And so this is table stakes.
This is not the thing that answers the problems.
This is the sort of prerequisite for being able to do anything, a metaphor.
I often have Andrew, since you're using these climate change,
analogies is it's like Facebook is like Exxon,
but they're the Exxon of human anxiety,
except they also don't just own the kind of, you know, extraction of oil.
They also own the entire satellite network that we have to observe and measure
how much CO2.
So they actually control the measurement of how bad the problem is.
So this is ridiculous. It's almost like it's, you know,
if you take the monopoly conversation,
it's a vertically integrated company that owns both the measurement, you know,
either the exclusive access to measurement of the harm and also the harm
creation. That's a vertically integrated perverse sort of company. Um,
there's also other aspects of freedom from manipulation,
accountability for harms, enabling more, uh, competition.
And we can dig into that because it's less about, as you said,
magically breaking them up,
causes the removal of misinformation or addiction in society because you still
have a race to the bottom to create those problems. Um,
and then also national security, because we haven't talked about that, that,
you know, while we've been obsessed, you know, by some folks, um,
and politicians of protecting our physical borders,
we've been leaving our digital borders wide open.
And this is really important because if Russia,
China tried to fly a plane into the physical United States where they try to get
across the passport controls,
we have huge billions of dollars invested in either shooting down that plane or
stopping them at the border.
But none of us would accept it. None of us would accept the fact that you have,
you have 70 countries right now that are, uh, investing in misinformation.
And everyone's like, Oh,
you had 70 countries flying planes through our airspace. We'd all be like,
what the heck is it?
That's exactly right. And so,
and so if you think about it as w how much of the surface area of our,
of our country's activity is happens in the physical world and how much of that
surface area is moving into the virtual world of kind of Facebook,
Instagram clicks, advertising, email, et cetera,
and more and more of our economic activity is moving from the physical to the
digital, but we don't protect the digital borders.
So if Russia and China tried to fly an information plane into the virtual
United States, instead of being met by the Pentagon to shoot it down,
they're met by a Facebook algorithm with a white glove that says, yeah,
exactly which zip code or minority group would you like to target with more
divisive information that could stir up culture Wars.
So this is a urgent national security threat that we've been meaning to try to
get, you know, more into the agenda. Cause I think we don't,
we massively underestimate the vulnerability of culture, you know,
after world war two, you know, big powers like Russia, China, Iran, Turkey,
they're not going to, um, you know,
attack the United States with nuclear weapons anymore.
They can't do kinetic warfare. And so what would you do?
You would actually want to take the divisions in a country that already exists,
walk over their virtual borders and stir up culture Wars and racial divides
everywhere, which is exactly what we're seeing them doing. Um,
we also know that Russia has gone after, um,
XUS veteran groups and trying to so more discontent about, you know, uh,
the dark. We know that there are,
we know that Russia is going after environmentalist groups. Um, in fact,
they actually go after in pro environmentalist,
anti-fracking us advocates like Greenpeace and Mack and amplify them because
what happens if in the U S we don't frack,
we have to buy more foreign oil from where from Russia.
So there's many different aspects to this problem,
but I think what people need to know is that this is an, all of our interests.
It's not a partisan issue. Um, it's really a global issue and a national scale.
Security issue that affects everyone. Thank you for listening in.
I hope you enjoyed this conversation. If you did, please do subscribe to yang,
speaks and click on notifications so we can let you know,
every time we have a new episode.